---
title: Coded Aperture Design for Compressive Spectral Subspace Clustering
picture: "img/journals/covers/hinojosa2018csiclustering.png"
journal: Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing
authors: Carlos Hinojosa, Jorge Bacca, Henry Arguello
publisher: IEEE
show_copyright: true
modaltitle: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing
modalsubtitle: "<small>Carlos Hinojosa, Jorge Bacca and Henry Arguello, Coded Aperture Design for Compressive Spectral Subspace Clustering, in IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 1589-1600, Dec. 2018.. Available Online: <a href=https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2018.2878293>https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2018.2878293</a></small>"
modalcontent: "&#x24B8; 2018 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses in any current or future media, including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works."
file_link: Documents/Publications/Journals/hinojosa2018csiclustering.pdf
link_categoy_name: CA_Design_Clustering
repo_link: https://github.com/carlosh93/compressive_spectral_subspace_clustering
order_number: 3
---
Compressive spectral imaging (CSI) acquires compressed observations of a spectral scene by applying different coding patterns at each spatial location and then performing a spectral-wise integration. Relying on compressive sensing, spectral image reconstruction is achieved by using nonlinear and relatively expensive optimization-based algorithms. In the CSI literature, several works have focused on improving reconstructions quality by properly designing the set of coding patterns. However, signal recovery is not actually necessary in many signal processing applications. For instance, assuming that compressed measurements with similar characteristics lie on the same subspace, unsupervised methods like subspace clustering can be used to separate them into the same cluster. Since the structure of compressed measurements is defined by the applied codification, it is possible to improve clustering performance. This work proposes to design an set of coding patterns such that inter-class and intra-class data structure is preserved after the CSI acquisition in order to improve clustering results directly on the compressed domain. To validate the coding pattern design, an algorithm based on sparse subspace clustering (SSC) is proposed to perform clustering on the compressed measurements. The proposed algorithm adds a 3D spatial regularizer to the SSC problem exploiting the spatial correlation of spectral images. In general, an overall accuracy up to 83.81\% is obtained, when noisy measurements are assumed. In addition, a difference of at most 4\% in terms of overall accuracy was observed when comparing the clustering results obtained by the full 3D data with those achieved using CSI measurements acquired with the proposed coding pattern design.